.TH FSELECT 1
.SH NAME
fselect \- find files with SQL-like queries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fselect
.RB [ \-\-nocolor ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-errors ]
.RB [ \-\-us\-dates ]
.RB [ \-\-config
.IR FILE ]
.PP
.B fselect
.I COLUMN
.RI [ ", " COLUMN " ..."]
.RB [ from
.IR ROOT
.RI [ ", " ROOT " ..."]]
.RB [ where
.IR EXPR ]
.RB [ group
.B by
.IR COLUMNS ]
.RB [ order
.B by
.IR COLUMNS ]
.RB [ limit
.IR N ]
.RB [ offset
.IR N ]
.RB [ into
.IR FORMAT ]
.PP
.B fselect \-i
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fselect
is a command-line utility for finding files using an SQL-like query language.
The
.B fselect
command itself acts as the
.B select
keyword (i.e.,
.IR "file select" ).
An optional
.B select
keyword at the beginning of the query is accepted but not required.
.PP
Query columns may be file attributes, arbitrary string literals (quoted if they contain spaces),
function calls, or arithmetic expressions.
.PP
If
.B from
is omitted, the current directory is searched.
Multiple search roots may be listed, separated by commas.
Each root may have its own set of options (depth, symlinks, archives, etc.).
.PP
Queries containing
.BR > ,
.BR < ,
parentheses, or shell metacharacters such as
.BR * " and " ?
should be enclosed in double quotes to prevent shell interpretation.
.PP
Commas between column names are optional.
String literals do not need quotes unless they contain spaces or shell metacharacters.
Functions with no arguments do not require parentheses.
Curly braces may be used instead of parentheses.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-interactive ", " \-i
Run in interactive mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-config " FILE"
Specify an alternative configuration file location.
.TP
.BR \-\-nocolor ", " \-\-no\-color
Disable colorized output.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-errors
Suppress error messages.
.TP
.BR \-\-us\-dates
Interpret ambiguous dates in US format (MM/DD) instead of the default UK format (DD/MM).
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Show help and exit.
.SH COLUMNS AND FIELDS
.SS File naming
.TP
.B name
File name with extension.
.TP
.BR filename " or " fname
File name without extension.
.TP
.BR extension " or " ext
File extension only (without the leading dot).
.TP
.B path
Path relative to the search root.
.TP
.B abspath
Absolute path of the file.
.TP
.BR directory " or " dirname " or " dir
Directory portion of the path, relative to the search root.
.TP
.B absdir
Absolute directory portion of the path.
.SS File naming terminology
Given a search root of
.B /home/user/projects
and a file at
.BR /home/user/projects/foobar/content/readme.md :
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBabspath\fR   /home/user/projects/foobar/content/readme.md
\fBabsdir\fR    /home/user/projects/foobar/content
\fBpath\fR      foobar/content/readme.md
\fBdir\fR       foobar/content
\fBname\fR      readme.md
\fBfilename\fR  readme
\fBext\fR       md
.fi
.RE
.SS Size
.TP
.B size
Size of the file in bytes.
.TP
.BR fsize " or " hsize
Human-readable size with unit suffix.
.SS Timestamps
.TP
.B accessed
Time the file was last accessed (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS).
.TP
.B created
File creation time (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS).
.TP
.B modified
Time the file was last modified (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS).
.SS Type tests (boolean)
.TP
.B is_dir
True if path is a directory.
.TP
.B is_file
True if path is a regular file.
.TP
.B is_symlink
True if path is a symbolic link.
.TP
.BR is_pipe " or " is_fifo
True if path is a FIFO or named pipe.
.TP
.BR is_char " or " is_character
True if path is a character special file.
.TP
.B is_block
True if path is a block special file.
.TP
.B is_socket
True if path is a socket.
.TP
.B is_hidden
True if file is hidden (starts with a dot on Unix).
.TP
.B is_empty
True if file is empty or directory contains no entries.
.TP
.B is_shebang
True if file begins with a shebang
.RB ( #! ).
.TP
.B is_binary
True if MIME type detection identifies the file as binary.
.TP
.B is_text
True if MIME type detection identifies the file as text.
.SS Permissions
.TP
.B mode
Full permission string, similar to the first column of
.BR "ls \-la" .
.TP
.BR uid " / " gid
Numeric user ID / group ID of the owner.
.TP
.BR user " / " group
Name of the owner / owner's group.
Available only on Unix when the
.B users
feature is enabled.
.TP
.BR user_read ", " user_write ", " user_exec ", " user_all " / " user_rwx
Per-owner permission bits.
.TP
.BR group_read ", " group_write ", " group_exec ", " group_all " / " group_rwx
Per-group permission bits.
.TP
.BR other_read ", " other_write ", " other_exec ", " other_all " / " other_rwx
Permission bits for other users.
.TP
.BR suid " or " is_suid
SUID bit.
.TP
.BR sgid " or " is_sgid
SGID bit.
.TP
.BR is_sticky " or " sticky
Sticky bit.
.SS Unix/Linux-specific
.TP
.B device
Device number the file resides on.
.TP
.B rdev
Device ID for special files (character and block devices).
.TP
.B inode
Inode number.
.TP
.B blocks
Number of 256-byte blocks allocated.
.TP
.B hardlinks
Number of hard links.
.TP
.B atime
Last access time as a Unix timestamp (seconds since epoch).
.TP
.B mtime
Last modification time as a Unix timestamp (seconds since epoch).
.TP
.B ctime
Last status change time as a Unix timestamp (seconds since epoch).
.TP
.B has_xattrs
True if the file has extended attributes (xattrs).
.TP
.B xattr_count
Number of extended attributes (xattrs) on the file, or alternate data streams on Windows.
.TP
.B extattrs
Extended file attribute flags as reported by
.BR lsattr (1)
(single-letter codes).
.TP
.B has_extattrs
True if any
.B extattrs
flag is set.
.TP
.B acl
All ACL entries in standard form, comma-separated.
On Linux, returns POSIX ACL entries in
.BR getfacl (1)
format.
On Windows, returns explicit DACL entries as
.BR type : trustee : permissions
(e.g.,
.BR allow:BUILTIN\eAdministrators:full ).
Permission labels:
.BR full ", " modify ", " rx ", " read ", " write ,
or a hex value for non-standard masks.
Available only on Linux and Windows.
.TP
.B has_acl
True if the file has POSIX ACL entries beyond standard Unix permissions
or explicit (non-inherited) Windows DACL entries.
.TP
.B default_acl
All default POSIX ACL entries in standard form, comma-separated.
Available only on Linux.
.TP
.B has_default_acl
True if the directory has default POSIX ACL entries.
.TP
.BR has_capabilities " or " has_caps
True if the file has Linux capabilities.
Available only on Linux.
.TP
.BR capabilities " or " caps
Linux capabilities string assigned to the file.
.SS Media
.TP
.BR width " / " height
Width and height of an image or MP4 video in pixels.
.TP
.B duration
Duration of an audio file in seconds.
.TP
.BR mp3_bitrate " or " bitrate
Audio bitrate in kbps.
.TP
.BR mp3_freq " or " freq
Audio sampling frequency.
.TP
.BR mp3_title " or " title
Track title from audio metadata.
.TP
.BR mp3_artist " or " artist
Artist name from audio metadata.
.TP
.BR mp3_album " or " album
Album name from audio metadata.
.TP
.BR mp3_genre " or " genre
Genre from audio metadata.
.TP
.B mp3_year
Year from audio metadata.
.SS EXIF metadata
.TP
.B exif_datetime
Date and time recorded in EXIF data.
.TP
.BR exif_datetime_original " or " exif_dto
Original date and time when the photo was taken.
.TP
.BR exif_altitude " or " exif_alt
GPS altitude.
.TP
.BR exif_latitude " or " exif_lat
GPS latitude.
.TP
.BR exif_longitude " or " exif_lng " or " exif_lon
GPS longitude.
.TP
.BR exif_make " / " exif_model
Camera manufacturer and model.
.TP
.B exif_software
Software used to create the image.
.TP
.B exif_version
Version of EXIF metadata.
.TP
.BR exif_exposure_time " or " exif_exptime
Exposure time.
.TP
.B exif_aperture
Aperture value.
.TP
.B exif_shutter_speed
Shutter speed.
.TP
.BR exif_f_number " or " exif_f_num
F-number.
.TP
.BR exif_iso_speed " or " exif_iso
ISO speed (EXIF 2.3 ISOSpeed tag).
.TP
.BR exif_sensitivity " or " exif_photo_sensitivity
Photographic sensitivity (ISO).
.TP
.BR exif_focal_length " or " exif_focal_len
Focal length.
.TP
.BR exif_lens_make " / " exif_lens_model
Lens manufacturer and model.
.SS MIME and file type shortcuts
.TP
.B mime
MIME type string.
.TP
.B line_count
Number of lines in a text file.
.TP
.B is_archive
True if extension matches a known archive format
(.7z, .bz2, .gz, .rar, .tar, .xz, .zip, and others).
.TP
.B is_audio
True if extension matches a known audio format
(.aac, .flac, .mp3, .ogg, .wav, .wma, and others).
.TP
.B is_book
True if extension matches a known book format
(.epub, .fb2, .mobi, .pdf, and others).
.TP
.B is_doc
True if extension matches a known document format
(.doc, .docx, .odt, .pdf, .ppt, .xls, and others).
.TP
.B is_font
True if extension matches a known font format
(.otf, .ttf, .woff, .woff2, and others).
.TP
.B is_image
True if extension matches a known image format
(.bmp, .gif, .jpeg, .jpg, .png, .svg, .webp, and others).
.TP
.B is_source
True if extension matches a known source code format
(.c, .cpp, .go, .java, .js, .py, .rs, .ts, and others).
.TP
.B is_video
True if extension matches a known video format
(.avi, .mkv, .mov, .mp4, .webm, .wmv, and others).
.SS File hashes
.TP
.B sha1
SHA-1 digest.
.TP
.BR sha2_256 " or " sha256
SHA-256 digest.
.TP
.BR sha2_512 " or " sha512
SHA-512 digest.
.TP
.BR sha3_512 " or " sha3
SHA3-512 digest.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.SS Aggregate functions
Queries using these functions return a single result row.
.TP
.B AVG
Average value.
.TP
.B COUNT
Number of rows.
.TP
.B MAX
Maximum value.
.TP
.B MIN
Minimum value.
.TP
.B SUM
Sum of all values.
.TP
.BR STDDEV_POP " / " STDDEV " / " STD
Population standard deviation.
.TP
.B STDDEV_SAMP
Sample standard deviation.
.TP
.BR VAR_POP " / " VARIANCE
Population variance.
.TP
.B VAR_SAMP
Sample variance.
.SS Date functions
.TP
.BR CURRENT_DATE " / " CUR_DATE " / " CURDATE
Current date.
.TP
.BR CURRENT_TIME " / " CUR_TIME " / " CURTIME
Current local time (HH:MM:SS).
.TP
.BR CURRENT_TIMESTAMP " / " NOW
Current local timestamp (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS).
.TP
.B DAY
Day of the month.
.TP
.B MONTH
Month of the year.
.TP
.B YEAR
Year.
.TP
.BR DOW " / " DAYOFWEEK
Day of the week (1 = Sunday, 2 = Monday, \&...).
.TP
.B DAYNAME
Name of the day of the week (e.g., Monday, Tuesday).
.TP
.BR DOY " / " DAYOFYEAR
Day of the year (1\(en366).
.TP
.BR DATE_ADD " / " DATEADD "(date, days)"
Add
.I days
to a date and return the resulting datetime.
.TP
.BR DATE_SUB " / " DATESUB "(date, days)"
Subtract
.I days
from a date and return the resulting datetime.
.TP
.BR DATE_DIFF " / " DATEDIFF "(date1, date2)"
Number of days between
.I date1
and
.IR date2 .
.TP
.BR FROM_UNIXTIME "(timestamp)"
Convert a Unix timestamp (seconds since epoch) to a datetime string.
.TP
.BR LAST_DAY " / " LAST_DATE "(date)"
Last day of the month for the given date.
.SS String functions
.TP
.BR LENGTH " / " LEN
Length of the string value.
.TP
.BR LOWER " / " LOWERCASE " / " LCASE
Convert to lowercase.
.TP
.BR UPPER " / " UPPERCASE " / " UCASE
Convert to uppercase.
.TP
.B INITCAP
First letter of each word uppercase, rest lowercase.
.TP
.BR TO_BASE64 " / " BASE64
Encode to Base64.
.TP
.B FROM_BASE64
Decode from Base64.
.TP
.B CONCAT
Concatenate expression values.
.TP
.B CONCAT_WS
Concatenate expression values with a delimiter.
.TP
.BR LOCATE " / " POSITION "(str, substr [, pos])"
Position of
.I substr
in
.IR str .
.TP
.BR SUBSTRING " / " SUBSTR "(str, pos [, len])"
Substring starting at
.IR pos .
Negative
.I pos
counts from the end.
.TP
.BR REPLACE "(str, from, to)"
Replace all occurrences.
.TP
.B TRIM
Strip whitespace from both ends.
.TP
.B LTRIM
Strip whitespace from the left.
.TP
.B RTRIM
Strip whitespace from the right.
.SS Numeric functions
.TP
.BR BIN " / " HEX " / " OCT
Convert integer to binary, hexadecimal, or octal.
.TP
.B ABS
Absolute value.
.TP
.BR POWER " / " POW
Raise to a power.
.TP
.B SQRT
Square root.
.TP
.B LOG
Common logarithm.
.TP
.B LN
Natural logarithm.
.TP
.B EXP
Euler's number raised to the given power.
.TP
.B LEAST
Smallest of the given values.
.TP
.B GREATEST
Largest of the given values.
.TP
.B PI
The constant π.
.TP
.B FLOOR
Largest integer not greater than the value.
.TP
.BR CEIL " / " CEILING
Smallest integer not less than the value.
.TP
.B ROUND
Nearest integer.
.TP
.BR RANDOM " / " RAND
Random integer.
With no argument: 0 to max int.
With one argument: 0 to
.IR arg .
With two arguments: from
.I arg1
to
.IR arg2 .
.SS Character detection functions
.TP
.BR CONTAINS_JAPANESE " / " JAPANESE
True if the string contains Japanese characters.
.TP
.BR CONTAINS_HIRAGANA " / " HIRAGANA
True if the string contains Hiragana characters.
.TP
.BR CONTAINS_KATAKANA " / " KATAKANA
True if the string contains Katakana characters.
.TP
.BR CONTAINS_KANA " / " KANA
True if the string contains Kana characters (Hiragana or Katakana).
.TP
.BR CONTAINS_KANJI " / " KANJI
True if the string contains Kanji characters.
.TP
.BR CONTAINS_GREEK " / " GREEK
True if the string contains Greek characters.
.SS Other functions
.TP
.B CONTAINS
True if the file contains the given string.
.TP
.B COALESCE
First non-empty value from the argument list.
.TP
.BR FORMAT_TIME " / " PRETTY_TIME
Human-readable duration (e.g.,
.IR "2min 26s" ).
.TP
.BR FORMAT_SIZE " / " FORMAT_FILESIZE
Formatted file size.
The optional second argument is a format specifier such as
.B "%.2 d"
(two decimal places, 1000-based units).
.SS Extended attribute and ACL functions
.TP
.BR HAS_XATTR "(name)"
True if the named xattr exists.
.TP
.BR XATTR "(name)"
Value of the named xattr.
.TP
.BR HAS_EXTATTR "(flag)"
True if the given
.BR lsattr (1)
flag is set.
Available only on Linux.
.TP
.BR HAS_ACL_ENTRY "(entry)"
True if the specified ACL entry exists.
Entry format:
.BR type : qualifier
(e.g.,
.BR user:john ,
.BR group:staff ).
.TP
.BR ACL_ENTRY "(entry)"
Permissions for the specified ACL entry.
.TP
.BR HAS_DEFAULT_ACL_ENTRY "(entry)"
True if the specified default ACL entry exists.
.TP
.BR DEFAULT_ACL_ENTRY "(entry)"
Permissions for the specified default ACL entry.
.TP
.BR HAS_CAPABILITY " / " HAS_CAP "(cap)"
True if the file has the given Linux capability.
.SS User functions
Available only on Unix when the
.B users
feature is enabled.
.TP
.BR CURRENT_UID ()
Current real UID.
.TP
.BR CURRENT_USER ()
Name of the current real UID.
.TP
.BR CURRENT_GID ()
Current primary GID.
.TP
.BR CURRENT_GROUP ()
Name of the current primary GID.
.SH FILE SIZE UNITS
Size comparisons and the
.B fsize
column understand the following unit suffixes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBt\fR or \fBtib\fR    tebibyte    1024^4 bytes
\fBtb\fR          terabyte    1000^4 bytes
\fBg\fR or \fBgib\fR    gibibyte    1024^3 bytes
\fBgb\fR          gigabyte    1000^3 bytes
\fBm\fR or \fBmib\fR    mebibyte    1024^2 bytes
\fBmb\fR          megabyte    1000^2 bytes
\fBk\fR or \fBkib\fR    kibibyte    1024 bytes
\fBkb\fR          kilobyte    1000 bytes
.fi
.RE
.SH SEARCH ROOTS
Each search root may be followed by one or more options:
.TP
.BI mindepth " N"
Minimum search depth. Depth 1 skips the root directory itself and starts at its children.
.TP
.BI maxdepth " N"
Maximum search depth.
Depth 1 searches only the root directory.
Depth 2 also searches immediate subdirectories.
Synonym:
.BR depth .
.TP
.BR symlinks " / " sym
Follow symbolic links. Default is not to follow.
.TP
.BR archives " / " arc
Search inside archives (zip only). Default is not to search archives.
.TP
.BR gitignore " / " git
Respect
.B .gitignore
files.
.TP
.BR hgignore " / " hg
Respect
.B .hgignore
files.
.TP
.BR dockerignore " / " dock
Respect
.B .dockerignore
files.
.TP
.BR nogitignore " / " nogit
Disable
.B .gitignore
parsing.
.TP
.BR nohgignore " / " nohg
Disable
.B .hgignore
parsing.
.TP
.BR nodockerignore " / " nodock
Disable
.B .dockerignore
parsing.
.TP
.B dfs
Depth-first traversal.
.TP
.B bfs
Breadth-first traversal (default).
.TP
.BR regexp " / " rx
Treat the root path as a regular expression matching against multiple directories.
.SH OPERATORS
.SS Comparison operators
.TP
.BR = " / " == " / " eq
Equal (with glob expansion and regular expression matching for strings).
.TP
.BR != " / " <> " / " ne
Not equal.
.TP
.BR === " / " eeq
Exact equal (no glob or regex expansion).
.TP
.BR !== " / " ene
Exact not-equal.
.TP
.BR > " / " gt
Greater than.
.TP
.BR >= " / " gte " / " ge
Greater than or equal.
.TP
.BR < " / " lt
Less than.
.TP
.BR <= " / " lte " / " le
Less than or equal.
.TP
.BR =~ " / " ~= " / " regexp " / " rx
Match regular expression.
.TP
.BR !=~ " / " !~= " / " notrx
Does not match regular expression.
.TP
.B like
SQL LIKE pattern (
.B %
matches any sequence,
.B _
matches one character).
.TP
.B notlike
Negation of
.BR like .
.TP
.B between
Range check:
.IB column " between " val1 " and " val2
.TP
.B in
Set membership:
.IB column " in (" val1 ", " val2 ", ...)"
or
.IB column " in (subquery)" .
.TP
.B exists
Row existence test:
.B exists (subquery)
.SS Arithmetic operators
.TP
.BR + " / " plus
Addition.
.TP
.BR - " / " minus
Subtraction.
.TP
.BR * " / " mul
Multiplication.
.TP
.BR / " / " div
Division.
.TP
.BR % " / " mod
Modulo.
.SS Logical operators
.TP
.B and
Logical conjunction.
.TP
.B or
Logical disjunction.
.TP
.B not
Logical negation. May appear before an operator or a condition.
.SH DATE AND TIME SPECIFIERS
When the
.B =
or
.B !=
operator is used with an inexact date, it is treated as an interval:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B 2017-05-01
The entire day (00:00:00 to 23:59:59).
.TP
.B "2017-05-01 15"
One hour (15:00:00 to 15:59:59).
.TP
.B "2017-05-01 15:10"
One minute (15:10:00 to 15:10:59).
.RE
.PP
Other comparison operators accept more flexible date expressions:
.B today ,
.B yesterday ,
.B "last fri" ,
.B "apr 1" ,
.B 2017-05-01 ,
and numeric relative offsets (e.g.,
.B -2
means two days ago).
.PP
Dates default to UK locale (DD/MM). Use
.B \-\-us\-dates
or
.B us_dates = true
in the config file to switch to US format.
The safest representation is ISO 8601:
.BR "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS" .
.SH REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
Rust-flavor regular expressions are used (see
.BR regex (7)
or the online documentation at https://docs.rs/regex).
.SH SUBQUERIES
Subqueries may be used with the
.BR in ", " "not in" ", " exists ", and " "not exists"
operators.
To reference columns from an outer query in a correlated subquery, bind the search root with an alias using the
.B as
keyword:
.PP
.RS
.EX
fselect "name, path, size from /data as data
    where exists (select * from /backup as backup
    where backup.name = data.name)"
.EE
.RE
.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
Specified with the
.B into
keyword at the end of the query.
.TP
.B tabs
Tab-separated columns (default).
.TP
.B lines
Each column on a separate line.
.TP
.B list
Columns separated by a NUL byte, similar to
.B find \-print0
(suitable for
.BR "xargs \-0" ).
.TP
.B csv
Comma-separated values.
.TP
.B json
JSON array of result objects.
.TP
.B html
HTML document containing a table.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
On Linux:
.RS
.B ~/.config/fselect/config.toml
.RE
.PP
On Windows:
.RS
.B %APPDATA%\ejhspetersson\efselect\econfig.toml
.RE
.PP
If no config file is found on the standard paths,
.B fselect
also looks for a config file next to the executable.
A custom path may be supplied with
.BR \-\-config .
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
Start with
.BR "fselect \-i" .
In interactive mode:
.IP \(bu
Queries are entered directly without quoting for the shell.
.IP \(bu
Shell metacharacters need not be escaped.
.IP \(bu
Command history is available via the up and down arrow keys.
.IP \(bu
.B pwd
prints the current directory;
.B cd
changes it.
.IP \(bu
.B "errors off"
suppresses error reporting.
.IP \(bu
Exit with
.BR quit ,
.BR exit ,
Ctrl+C, or Ctrl+D.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LS_COLORS
Determines how search results are colorized; see
.BR dircolors (1).
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set (to any value), disables all colorized output.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
I/O error during directory traversal or file reading.
.TP
.B 2
Query parse error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Find temporary and config files, showing size and full path:
$ fselect size, path from /home/user where name = '*.cfg' or name = '*.tmp'
.TP
Search in a directory whose name contains spaces:
$ fselect "name from '/home/user/dir with spaces' where size > 0"
.TP
Find large files (over 2 GiB):
$ fselect size, abspath from ./tmp where size gt 2g
.TP
Find files within a size range:
$ fselect name, size from ./tmp where size between 5mb and 6mb
.TP
Complex boolean condition:
$ fselect "name from /tmp where (name = *.tmp and size = 0) or (name = *.cfg and size > 1000000)"
.TP
Find files modified today, ordered by size:
$ fselect path, size from /home/user where modified = today order by size desc
.TP
Find files by regular expression:
$ fselect name from /home/user where path =~ '.*Rust.*'
.TP
Aggregate: total size of downloads:
$ fselect "MIN(size), MAX(size), AVG(size), SUM(size), COUNT(*) from /home/user/Downloads"
.TP
Group files by extension with count:
$ fselect "ext, count(*) from /tmp group by ext"
.TP
Search with depth limit and symlink following:
$ fselect path from /home/user depth 5 symlinks where name = '*.jpg'
.TP
Search respecting .gitignore:
$ fselect size, path from /home/user/projects gitignore where name = '*.cpp'
.TP
Find images by dimensions:
$ fselect path from /home/user/photos where width gte 2000 or height gte 2000
.TP
Find old rap MP3s:
$ fselect duration, path from /home/user/music where genre = Rap and bitrate = 320 and mp3_year lt 2000
.TP
Find files with dangerous permissions:
$ fselect mode, path from /home/user where other_write or other_exec
.TP
Find files not present in a backup directory:
$ fselect "name, path from /current where name not in (select name from /backup)"
.TP
Output as JSON:
$ fselect size, path from /home/user limit 5 into json
.TP
Pipe NUL-separated paths to grep:
$ fselect path from /home/user into list | xargs -0 grep foobar
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR find (1),
.BR fd (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR dircolors (1)
